COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)

This article summarizes results of the NINJA-2 project. In this
project, the performances
of gravitational-wave detectors under construction are estimated in an
extensive way,
by injecting simulated gravitational-waveforms into estimated detector noise.

All the best and reliable knowledge at this moment are included in
this series of
research. In particular, (1) the number of used waveforms are as much as  60,
(2) each waveforms has as much as about 10 binary cycles, (3) detector noises
are estimated from real observation data by LIGO and VIRGO containing
non-stationary noises, (4) same data-analysis pipelines as those used
in real search
in LIGO and VIRGO are used, (5) successfully found the injected signal in blind
search, and (6) evaluate the predicted detector performance from the point
of detection and parameter estimations. This work sets a benchmark for the
next steps of research.

The article is written clearly and carefully. I recommend to publish
in the current form.

Referee: 2

COMMENTS TO THE AUTHOR(S)
This paper describes the ability to detect gravitational waves
from merging binary black holes and recover their parameters
with advanced LIGO and advanced Virgo.
The results are interesting and important for the analysis of
the data from these detectors which are coming within a few years.
The difference from the first NINJA paper is described clearly.
Thus, I recommend this paper to be published.
However, I request some minor amendments of the draft.

1. Basically, there are four kinds of the analysis done in this paper.
(1)Search for the blind injections with coherent WaveBurst.
(2)Search for the blind injections with ihope.
(3)Parameter estimation of the blind injection signals.
(4)Sensitivity evaluation with many signals.

In each analysis, the injected signals are different, and the templates used in
the search or parameter estimation are different for the cases (2)-(4).
It may not be so easy for the readers to obtain the basic idea of the structure
of this paper intuitively.
Thus, I wonder if the authors could make one table which describe
the list of templates and some description of the injected signals.
If there is such a table, it will be very helpful for the reader to
understand this paper.

2. Section 4 is devoted to the explanation of the injection parameters of
all of the analysis. However, since the more detailed explanations are given
in the sections of each analysis, some explanation is not easy to understand.
For example, in page 23, before Eq.(23), it is not easy to understand
the following sentence:

"For each of the 60 NR waveforms given in Table 1 and used in results
in section 8, a set of ∼ 42000
simulated signals was generated, necessarily with the same mass ratio
and spins as the provided NR waveform."

This sentence can be understand in very different ways, and it is very
confusing.
In a later section, this is explained more clearly.
Thus, I think all of section 4 can be merged in the sections of each analysis.
I want to request the authors to consider this possibility.

3. There is no explanation about how Eq. (4) in page 27 was derived.
It would be better if more explanations were given.

